I'm Fraser Cain the publisher of
Universe Today for most of us stuck here
on earth we see very little of the rest
of the solar system just the bright Sun
during the day the moon and the planets
at night but in fact we're embedded in a
huge solar system that extends across a
vast amount of space which begs the
question just how big is the solar
system before we can give a sense of
scale let's consider the units of
measurement distances in space are so
vast regular meters and kilometers don't
cut it
astronomers use a much larger
measurement called the astronomical unit
this is the average distance from the
earth to the Sun or approximately 150
million kilometers mercury is only 0.39
astronomical units from the Sun while
Jupiter orbits at a distance of 5.5
astronomical units and Pluto is way out
there at 39 point 2 astronomical units
that's the equivalent of 5.9 billion
kilometers if you could drive your car
at highway speeds all the way from the
Sun out to Pluto it would take you more
than six thousand years to complete the
trip but here's the real amazing part
our solar system extends much much
further than where the planets are but
for this dwarf planet Eris orbits within
just a fraction of the larger solar
system the Kuiper belt
where we find Pluto Eris Makemake and
Haumea extends from 30 astronomical
units all the way out to 50 au or seven
point five billion kilometers and we're
just getting started even further out at
about 80 to 200 au is the termination
shock this is the point where the sun's
solar wind traveling outward at 400 km/s
collides with the interstellar medium
the background material of the galaxy
this material piles up into a comet-like
tail that can extend 230 au from the Sun
but the true size of the solar system is
defined by the reach of its gravity
how far away an object can still be said
to orbit the Sun in the furthest reaches
of the solar system is the Oort cloud a
theorized cloud of icy objects that
could orbit the Sun to a distance of
100,000 astronomical units or 1.87
light-years away although we can't see
the Oort cloud directly the long period
comets that drop into the inner solar
system from time to time are thought to
originate from this region the Sun's
gravity dominates local space out to a
distance of about two light-years or
almost half the distance from the Sun to
the nearest star Proxima Centauri
believe it or not any object within this
region would probably be orbiting the
Sun and thought to be part of the solar
system back to our car analogy for a
second at those distances it would take
you 19 million years to complete the
journey to the edge of the solar system
even NASA's new Horizons spacecraft the
fastest object ever launched from Earth
would need 37,000 years to make this
trip so as you can see our solar system
is a really really big place thanks for
watching thanks for watching now make
sure you click subscribe on our youtube
channel over here and maybe you've still
got some questions about space and
astronomy like this one or that one and
if you don't see the question you're
looking for then send me an email at
info at Universe Today com